The blog, [UX 101: A Basic Project Checklist](https://theblog.adobe.com/ux-101-a-basic-project-checklist/), provides an overview of good UX practices. According to the blog, “User Experience design is the practice of enhancing user satisfaction with a product by refining the usability, convenience, and pleasure provided in contact with the product.” The overview in the blog goes over the whole product design process from conception to continual iterative deployment.  It points out that utilizing wireframes in the design process may limit prototype design. That said, much of the information the blog presents can be applied to improve the wireframe provided for the project. I will focus on three ways the wireframe can be improved: responsive design, localization and formulating testable design hypotheses.

The blog introduces a debate over whether wireframes are even necessary in the prototyping process. The main reason for this debate is responsive design. I had already noticed this limitation of the existing wireframe as responsive design was a requirement of the project. To implement responsive design there should really be three wireframes, one for mobile, one for tablet and one for desktop. Without tablet and mobile wireframes I had to make my own decisions on how to implement responsive design to complete the project. Providing the additional two wireframes would have completed the wireframing of the project by providing details for the responsive design requirement.

The next way to improve the wireframe is localization. According to the blog the term localization is used rather than translation to emphasis that optimizing user experience for different cultures is not simply a process of changing language but there are design sensibility differences between cultures that ideally should also be addressed. In a multicultural country like Canada, nationalization is a process that would be called internationalization in the industry. To accommodate the breadth of Canada, multiple localizations should be considered and implemented.

The last two improvement recommendations greatly increase the complexity of the wireframe by introducing more detail and considerations. Fortunately the blog provides us with a method to deal with this added complexity. We can create testable design hypotheses. We can then test these hypotheses using A/B Testing and comparing results using key performance indicators. Our hypotheses would be new wireframes based on consideration of responsive design and localization. We could then prototype and test. This form of iterative development of our design across time would be the ultimate improvement of the wireframe. Our wireframes and our user experience would evolve along with our users across time.